---
week_ending: 2023-05-12T00:00:00.000Z
draft: false
title: 'Weeknotes #23'
description: >-
  We've had a short but busy week at Open Innovations.
  Learn about our wonky grid, progress on projects and
  find out about the coffee and cake event next week.
  Avanti!
---

Another short week, but as ever, the team has packed a lot in!

{{ comp.anchor({ ref: 'lume-charts' }) | safe }}
Stuart and Giles spent some time reviewing our [visualisation library](https://github.com/open-innovations/oi-lume-charts).
We're getting close to a stable library, with a few internal refactorings and a final consistency review to complete before a version one release. You can take a look at the documentation and samples on [the OI Lume Charts site](https://open-innovations.github.io/oi-lume-charts/).
Christian has already started building the backlog for the next visualisation types by suggesting a few new visualisation types.
We will, of course, get him to capture these suggestions as issues in the GitHub repo, as we've begun integrating this work into the sprint process.

{{ comp.anchor({ ref: 'yff' }) | safe }}
Giles, Taz, Michelle and Luke have progressing the Youth Futures Foundation data site, following up on the feedback that we received on the session last week. We've make a start on the top-level dashboard presenting the key measures of interest to YFF, and are in the process of reviewing the pipelines to make sure we're handling the data cleanly. We've so far written up the [QLFS](https://data.youthfuturesfoundation.org/dashboard/qlfs/pipeline/) and [NEET](https://data.youthfuturesfoundation.org/dashboard/neet/pipeline/) pipelines, and will do the same for the CPI and vacancies data extracts.

{{ comp.anchor({ ref: 'leeds-2023' }) | safe }}
This week also saw a minor, but we think important, update to the [LEEDS 2023 microsite](https://data.leeds2023.co.uk).
This site is becoming very data rich, presenting a wealth of useful data insights that the team at LEEDS 2023 make regular use of.
As a result, a lot of the pages have become rather regimented grids. This is a bit borking visually, so we had a bit of a play and came up with a masonry grid layout.
This has three major benefits: it's less boring, larger numbers can take up more space if needed, and the dreaded "last row orphan" is no more. Let us know what you think.

{{ comp.anchor({ ref: 'jrf' }) | safe }}
Christian, Giles and Luke had a productive virtual kick-off with JRF, where they discussed the core themes and aims of the project and set out their working pratices. On the back of that, Luke has revised the first JRF blog he has written, which is planned to be published on Monday. Luke has spent a signifcant amount of time writing scripts to harvest data from the DWP's Stat-Xplore database.  You can see his work so far in the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/open-innovations/jrf-insight).

{{ comp.anchor({ ref: 'colours' }) | safe }}
Stuart published a [blog post about use of colours](https://open-innovations.org/blog/2023-05-10-better-colours), encapsulating a wealth of information about how we can better use colours in visualisations.
Our #RadicallyOpen way of working has paid dividends again, as no longer had he published and shared on Mastodon, than someone got in touch to improve it!

{{ comp.anchor({ ref: 'coffee-cake' }) | safe }}
Kathryn and Paul have been working on the update for the sponsors coffee and cake session we're holding next week.
This is a chance for our sponsors (and other organisations we work with) to update, learn, share and talk about opportunities and future plans.
You can [book your place at Eventbrite](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/open-innovations-sponsors-coffee-cake-am-tickets-620603169787).

{{ comp.anchor({ ref: 'paul' }) | safe }}
Paul has also been working with:

* Marc Farr on the development of Open Data Saves Lives into a stand alone spin-out from 2024. 
* Tom on application of his demographic tools into our Economics toolset
* Christian, Giles & Michelle on our project delivery and plan for Q2
* Taz and Luke on planning for the No Code Super Hack at Climb 23
