---
week_ending: 2023-04-07
draft: true
title: 'Weeknotes #18'
---





Giles came across this excellent and thought-provoking transcription of a talk by [Florian Haas](https://mastodon.social/@xahteiwi) entitled [No, We Won’t Have a Video Call for That!](https://xahteiwi.eu/resources/presentations/no-we-wont-have-a-video-call-for-that/). Florian tackles effective working in distributed teams. The transcription starts with this declaration: _“I normally make my talks available as a video, and a slide deck with full speaker notes. In this case though, I consider it fitting to write the whole thing out, so that you don’t need to watch a full length video in 45 minutes, but can read the whole thing in 15.”_ A lot of the advice in the talk chimes very heavily with the team’s recent focus on a ticketing system (GitHub Project) as an organisational tool for asynchronous collaboration. It feels like adopting this tool has changed the content and frequency of video calls for the better.

Stuart has updated the [council website emissions page](https://open-innovations.github.io/council-website-emissions/), which estimates CO2 emissions by websites for UK councils, and details how they could do better.

With the LSIP project in its latter stages, Luke has been busy making small tweaks across the site and adding a new page of visulaisations using new apprenticeship data. He has aslo spent time speaking to Giles and Taz to learn about the [Youth Futures Foundation](https://youthfuturesfoundation.org/) project so he can help with the workload while various people are away on holiday over the next few weeks.

