---
week_ending: 2023-03-10
draft: false
title: 'Weeknotes #14'
description: |
  New team members (welcome, Luke!). An new approach to managing delivery pace. The emergence of the Data Tarn and the Open Innovations platform. Also, check out the recent #OpenDataSavesLives event on Health Inequalities, now available to view online.
---

The big news this week is that we've been joined by
[Luke](https://open-innovations.org/about/team/#lstrange). He's spent his first
week learning about the LSIP project and getting a grasp on how to visualise
data on the Web. He has also been looking at 4 projects on northern economics
(Northern economic data, Leveling Up, Coastal Economies and Knaresborough
Connectors) and thinking about where he can add value. On Thursday he had a
meeting with Tom on all things buses, and is investigating the possible
application of machine learning in this area.

Giles, Christian, Michelle, Stuart and Paul had a working session this week to
plan the combined delivery of our upcoming economic data projects. As well as
outlining the projects, we reviewed the technical underpinnings of all these
projects and christened the Data Tarn (our version of a data lake collecting a
consistent set of open data). The good news is that all the components we need
exist in some form or another. There is work to integrate them and make them
more general, which we'll be using these projects to drive. We've already made a
start [documenting the platform](https://open-innovations.github.io/platform).
We also discussed how we manage the pace of delivery across a small team, whilst
still delivering on time and to budget. We've instituted whole team sprints for
delivery, each sprint running for two weeks. We'll plan individual tickets
(ideally bite size) and schedule these into the sprints based on priority and
available team capacity. We're currently in Sprint 1, having soft-launched this
a week or so ago. The first sprint is due to finish next week, so we will be
holding our first planning session on Tuesday. We'll share our experiences of
using this in future weeknotes.

Meanwhile, Taz has been busy writing up the recent #OpenDataSavesLives event on the theme
of Health Inequalities. You can now view the [recording](https://opendatasaveslives.org/events/session-37-health-inequalities)
and read the [blog post](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/opendatasaveslives-meeting-tickets-566573234797).
This topic has proven really popular, and we'll be coming back to it in our next
session [RAP for Health Inequalities](https://opendatasaveslives.org/events/session-38-rap-for-health-inequalities)
on the 10th May. Visit the event page to find out more and register!

