---
week_ending: 2023-01-13
draft: true
title: "Weeknotes #7"
---

We're hiring for an experienced technical consultant who can do bits of data
and code, whilst working in the flexible and agile way that our small team
does. Take a look at the the
[blog post that describes the role](https://open-innovations.org/blog/2022-12-13-vacancy-data-projects-technical-consultant)
and get in touch if you're interested!

In the week that [Sky News announced they'd made "the first database showing the scale of money entering UK politics"](https://twitter.com/SkyNews/status/1612005028377526272) based on the Register of Members' Financial Interests (RMFI) we've been continuing our work on the RMFI. We created our RMFI Explorer tool last summer to let you explore how much each MP gets from various interests outside of Parliament (that they've registered). We've just augmented it with an extra visualisation and, being us, you can probably guess what it is. Yes, we've [added a hex cartogram](https://open-innovations.org/projects/RMFI/#hexmap). We have other RMFI news...

We read an interesting [blog post about data cleaning by Randy Au](https://counting.substack.com/p/data-cleaning-is-analysis-not-grunt) that argues that rather than treat it as "grunt work" it be treated as "a spectrum of reusable data transformations on the path towards doing a full data analysis". Knowing your data is important. It also led us to [a 2020 blog post by Leigh Dodds](https://blog.ldodds.com/2020/01/31/do-data-scientists-spend-80-of-their-time-cleaning-data-turns-out-no/) which pulls apart the [factoid](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Factoid) that "data scientists spend 80% of their time cleaning data".

Paul has been thinking about our the annual review, and has written a summary of Open Innovation's year. He [ran this through GPT3](https://twitter.com/paulcconnell/status/1613576933052223496), which produced this pretty accurate and succinct summary

> In 2022, there was a shift in how people and organizations approached data and the web.
> They moved from just wanting to see what can be done with data and the web to needing
> help in using it to make changes within their organization. This shift is driven by frustration
> with the amount of reports and consultations needed to make progress and the need for
> real-time data to make informed decisions, which was highlighted by the pandemic. The
> company in question has grown their delivery capacity and formed partnerships with
> organizations that need support with data innovation. They plan to continue this work in
> 2023, focusing on themes such as open data and transportation, while continuing to share
> progress openly. The company has found success in their approach of doing, building, and
> creating with data, which is recognized as a credible approach. They also provide an
> alternative approach for organizations that want to focus on outputs and progress that suit
> their budgets and objectives.