---
week_ending: 2023-02-24
draft: true
title: 'Weeknotes #13'
---

This week Alex Parsons and Anna Powell-Smith published a good report on [Unlocking the value of fragmented public data](https://research.mysociety.org/html/unlocking-fragmented-data/) which has very practical recommandations on how we can do a better job when many organisations are required to publish the same data. To inform the recommendations they talked to various people who've worked with a variety of data publishers/datasets in local and national contexts. They feature [a case study](https://research.mysociety.org/html/unlocking-fragmented-data/l/6.113.qugwb.cvgrg.jx348.qcxpu.html) around our Business Rates errorts as well as [the tools we made to help people contribute to the Leeds City Region Diversity Dashboard](https://research.mysociety.org/html/unlocking-fragmented-data/l/6.117.ytm25.pag0s.lcyzh.mhrou.html). We're glad that it acknowledges the technical/resource constraints that many local authorities face and that things should be made as easy for them as possible - don't require people in local authorities to [publish 5 star linked data](https://5stardata.info/en/) but instead frame things more around enabling data to be brought together from multiple councils consistency and reliability. If we could get most councils publishing 2 or 3 star data well, 4 and 5 star data could be built from that by someone else. All the recommendations are worth a read.

This week saw the second session for our [Northern Economic Data User Group (NED)](https://open-innovations.org/projects/northern-economic-data-user-group/) where people gathered to hear and discuss a variety of work that's underway to better understand the economy of the north. Tom Forth talked about his work on ghost buses (and seeks active volunteers to stand at bus stops and verify the data!), Nicola Headlam from Red Flag Alert showed us their new tool to help identifying growth companies (and the fact that most are not in high-profile and sexy sectors: policy challenge!), Christian showed the updates to our Economic Data Dashboard and tools that we've built to support a couple of our projects including auto-generating metadata from flat CSVs to support clients to understand what's possible when building prototypes, and how we're building a model that allows us to flexibly compute __n__ bands of council tax at any ratio or rate you like and see how much it could raise. Discussions carried on in the pub, as all good things do, and we're already plotting the next one in May. In Leeds, online, or on tour? [Let us know!](mailto:christian.spence@open-innovations.org). Links to all of the things discussed are in the [shared doc for the event](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tUsZHMstqd3clJEitZC5lHBZgHg3Z5yksrda8HvFTkk/edit?usp=sharing).
